[Merged by Bors] - Make bug template more beginner-friendly (#4652)
bevyengine/bevy: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md

The release number or commit hash of the version you're using.

> ## \[Optional\] Relevant system infromation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## \[Optional\] Relevant system information
```

If you cannot get Bevy to build or run on your machine, please include:

- the Rust version you're using (you can get this by running `cargo --version`)
  - Bevy relies on the "latest stable release" of Rust
  - nightly should generally work, but there are sometimes regressions: please let us know!
- the operating system or browser used, including its version
  - e.g. Windows 10, Ubuntu 18.04, iOS 14

If your bug is rendering-related, copy the adapter info that appears when you run Bevy.

```ignore
`AdapterInfo { name: "NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070", vendor: 4318, device: 7938, device_type: DiscreteGpu, backend: Vulkan }`
```

You should also consider testing the examples of our upstream dependencies to help isolate any setup-specific issue:

- [`wgpu`](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu) for rendering problems
- [`winit`](https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit) for input and window management
- [`gilrs`](https://docs.rs/gilrs/latest/gilrs/) for gamepad inputs

## What you did

> Please provide a runnable code snippet or link if you can.

Reviewer 2: This current wording could make it seem like providing a code example is the suggested or even the only way you could go about this. This is a place where a little more verbosity might be warranted.

```suggestion
Describe how you arrived at the problem. If you can, consider providing a code snippet or link.
```

This wording feels a lot more friendly. It gives you options and is not upfront about asking for a code example.

> Describe how you arrived at the problem. If you can, consider providing a code snippet or link.

Reviewer 3: If users give links to reproductions, they often choose to keep them all rights reserved (e.g. https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/issues/4793).
This hampers the usability of these reproductions significantly, as e.g. they cannot be used as the basis of regression tests, among many other things. Afaik, there isn't even a license to download the code.
We should ask users to ensure that any reproductions are in the form of code snippets (or are compatibly licensed, though I find it unlikely that users would correctly compatibly license their code)

Reviewer 4: I don't think that's a conscious decision, more often than not it's people not bothering to add a license or simply beginners not aware of the potential issues it may cause.

As for downloading it, when creating a github you agreed to let other github users download and view your code.

> If you publish your source code in a public repository on GitHub, according to the [Terms of Service](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/site-policy/github-terms-of-service), other users of GitHub.com have the right to view and fork your repository

See the note in this page https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/licensing-a-repository

Reviewer 4: Either way, I agree that asking for people to license their code is appropriate.

Author: I'm on board. Wording suggestions?

Reviewer 4: Maybe something like that:

```suggestion
Describe how you arrived at the problem. If you can, consider providing a code snippet or link. If you share a repository, please make sure to include a compatible license such as MIT or Apache 2.0.
```

I'm not sure if we should specify a license or just let people pick one.

Reviewer 3: For it to be useful for creating regression tests, without opening the can of worms of licensing our tests differently, it must be exactly the Apache and MIT licenses that we use.

But yes, having an MIT or Apache 2.0 license at least gives enough permission to try and understand the bug from the code. I'd rather just heavily encourage including the reproduction code inline. In almost every case where people provide a reproduction repository, the only thing anyone viewing the issue to try to reproduce will do is open `src/main.rs` (after being surprised that the repository actually has a license)

We can encourage people to use a `details` section if the reproduction code is long.

Reviewer 5: Hey just chiming in as my issue was mentioned: The lack of license was unintentional, it just didn't cross my mind to add one!
And I should have just inlined it I think.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, definitely. Mentioning your issue wasn't trying to call you out as such- it's a very easy thing to miss. That's why we need to make it clear here ❤️.
Indeed, your missing it was helpful, because this issue was in recent working memory for me to bring it up here :)

Indeed, now that you have a license, it's now an example of my point in the top level message of:

> I find it unlikely that users would correctly compatibly license their code

since you have created the `LICENSE.md` file, but you haven't copied the licenses from `docs/LICENSE-MIT` and `docs/LICENSE-APACHE`, despite referencing them in `LICENSE.md`. 
This isn't very important - it's obvious to any observer that you're intending for the code to be licensed as MIT/Apache 2.0, which is *probably* good enough. But it's much easier for us to be confident if it's just included as code snippets in the issue.

Reviewer 5: Oh right! Well I'm glad to serve as a test subject for this discussion haha

Reviewer 5: Side note on inlining: It find github's markdown very unintuitive. The text input box allows you to paste tabs, but for some reason the formatting will be completely broken if you use them inside a code block in a <details> section... Took me like 5 minutes to figure it out how to format it properly

The release number or commit hash of the version you're using.

## \[Optional\] Relevant system infromation

If you are reporting a bug about:

- difficulties getting Bevy to build or run on your machine
- unusual rendering bugs
- unusual input bugs
- hardware specific problems

These issues are often specific to hardware or OS configuration and can be challenging to reproduce.

> As a result, please consider including information about:

Reviewer 2: Unnecessarily wordy.

```suggestion
Some of the following information may be relevant to your issue. Please provide it if you can:
```

Reviewer 2: you already did better than what i suggested

- the Rust version you're using (you can get this by running `cargo --version`)
  - Bevy has a policy of relying on the "latest stable release" of Rust
  - Nightly should generally work, but there are sometimes regressions: please let us know!
- the operating system, including its version
  - e.g. Windows 10, Ubuntu 18.04, iOS 14.
- relevant hardware
  - if your bug is rendering-related, copy the adapter info that appears when you run Bevy

>   - e.g. `AdapterInfo { name: "NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070", vendor: 4318, device: 7938, device_type: DiscreteGpu, backend: Vulkan }` or XBox series X controller

Reviewer 2: I really like this :)

It is so nice that bevy provides such a conveniently copy-pasteable snippet. Maybe we should consider adding some more info log messages to be printed by bevy, like that one, to help users. :)

> You should also consider testing the examples of our upstream dependencies to help isolate the issue:

Reviewer 2: This could be made more informative:
```suggestion
You could try running the examples of our upstream dependencies to help determine if the issue is Bevy-specific:
```

- [`wgpu`](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu) for rendering problems
- [`winit`](https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit) for input and window management
- [`gilrs`](https://docs.rs/gilrs/latest/gilrs/) for gamepad inputs

## What you did

The steps you took to uncover this bug.

> Please provide a runnable code snippet or link to an example that demonstrates the problem if you can.

Reviewer 2: This should feel more "optional". The current wording is a bit too strong. I suspect it may lead some users to feel like they have to muster up some code example to report a bug to us.

```suggestion
If you can, it would be helpful to provide a code snippet (or link to one) that demonstrates the problem.
```

Reviewer 2: in your new commit you already did better than what i suggested

For example:

```rust
use bevy::prelude::-;

fn main(){
    App::new()
    .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
    .run();
}
```

## What went wrong

If it's not clear:

- what were you expecting?
- what actually happened?

## Additional information

Other information that can be used to further reproduce or isolate the problem.

> This commonly includes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- the Rust version you're using
  - Bevy has a policy of relying on the "latest stable release" of Rust
  - Nightly should generally work, but there are sometimes regressions: please let us know!
- the operating system, including its version
  - e.g. Windows 10, Ubuntu 18.04, iOS 14.
- relevant hardware
  - if your bug is rendering-related, copy the adapter info that appears when you run Bevy
  - e.g. `AdapterInfo { name: "NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070", vendor: 4318, device: 7938, device_type: DiscreteGpu, backend: Vulkan }` or XBox series X controller

You should also consider testing the examples of our upstream dependencies to help isolate the issue:

- [`wgpu`](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu) for rendering problems
- [`winit`](https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit) for input and window management
- [`gilrs`](https://docs.rs/gilrs/latest/gilrs/) for gamepad inputs

## What you did

The steps you took to uncover this bug.
Please provide a runnable code snippet or link to an example that demonstrates the problem if you can.

For example:

```rust
use bevy::prelude::-;

fn main(){
    App::new()
    .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
    .run();
}
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The release number or commit hash of the version you're using.

Reviewer 6: I know it’s maybe a pain but for rendering bugs, if they are in wgpu or naga, they sometimes get fixed in point releases. In that case it is good to know which version of wgpu and naga are being used.

Author: Hmm. I think this is better tackled with a follow-up if they can reproduce it on Bevy but not in the `wgpu` examples.

> ## \[Optional\] Setup information

Reviewer 6: Maybe “Platform information”? Setup is a bit overloaded, in my opinion. I’ve taken to using platform for CPU/GPU/graphics API/OS.

Author: Yeah, I'm not happy with the wording either. Your suggestion feels too limited though 🤔

Author: Really I want "User-specific Information", but I'm really not sure how to make that clear enough.

Reviewer 2: I would do:

> ## Relevant System Information

If relevant to your issue, what is your operating system / distro, hardware (CPU/GPU), drivers, etc…?

Author: ```suggestion
## \[Optional\] Relevant system infromation
```

If you are reporting a bug about:

> - difficulties getting Bevy to build or run on your machine

Reviewer 6: How common is this? I see lots of rendering bugs but not so many fails to compile bugs. I have clear biases to what I pay attention to but I haven’t got the impression that building bevy is a common problem and I’d probably order this list roughly according to frequency of occurrence.

Author: Frustratingly common. We've had dozens of these, and they suck to reproduce and fix every single time. It's usually some mix of:

- wrong Rust version
- cargo's incremental compile acting up
- conflicting versions of Bevy in dependencies
- missing dependencies, especially on obscure Linux platforms

The rendering issues will at least give some useful diagnostics, although those are usually caused by either low-end hardware or broken support in wgpu / drivers.

See https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3AC-Startup

- unusual rendering bugs
- unusual input bugs
- hardware specific problems

These issues are often specific to hardware or OS configuration and can be challenging to reproduce.

> As a result, please consider including information about:

Reviewer 7: Maybe put everything from the start of this section up to this point in an html comment so it doesn't clutter the issue description even if the issue reporter forgets to remove it.

Author: Hmm. I think the better tool is write permissions to clean up bad issue descriptions (since I don't want to close valid issues due to bad formatting). This feels like over-optimizing for a single failure mode.

> - the Rust version you're using

Reviewer 6: How often do we need to know the rust version for problems? I have seen it once or twice but then it’s normally someone who avidly tracks nighties who is reporting the issue rather than Simone who is coming to Rust for the first time and it’s just not building. But you’d know better here as I could very well have just completely missed these problems as they’re caught and addressed by others in the community such as yourself. If it didn’t happen often then I’d propose moving it lower down the list.

Reviewer 7: On multiple occasions I have seen someone using an outdated rustc version.

Author: Yep, that's exactly the problem I want to nip in the bud.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- the Rust version you're using (you can get this by running `cargo --version`)
```

  - Bevy has a policy of relying on the "latest stable release" of Rust
  - Nightly should generally work, but there are sometimes regressions: please let us know!
- the operating system, including its version
  - e.g. Windows 10, Ubuntu 18.04, iOS 14.
- relevant hardware
  - if your bug is rendering-related, copy the adapter info that appears when you run Bevy

>   - e.g. `AdapterInfo { name: "NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070", vendor: 4318, device: 7938, device_type: DiscreteGpu, backend: Vulkan }` or XBox series X controller

Reviewer 6: Just to note that this is useful because it gives both the exact GPU, _and_ the graphics API backend used.

You should also consider testing the examples of our upstream dependencies to help isolate the issue:

- [`wgpu`](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu) for rendering problems
- [`winit`](https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit) for input and window management
- [`gilrs`](https://docs.rs/gilrs/latest/gilrs/) for gamepad inputs

## What you did

The steps you took to uncover this bug.

> Please provide a runnable snippet that demonstrates the problem if you can.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Please provide a runnable code snippet or link to an example that demonstrates the problem if you can.
```

> Please provide a runnable snippet that demonstrates the problem if feasible.

Author: ```suggestion
Please provide a runnable snippet that demonstrates the problem if you can.
```

For example:

```rust
use bevy::prelude::-;

fn main(){
    App::new()
    .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
    .run();
}
```

> If you can't produce a minimal reproduction, linking to a repository can also be very helpful.

Reviewer 6: I reworded the initial request to include linking to an example.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## What went wrong

> If it's not immediately obvious:

Reviewer 6: More welcoming tone:
```suggestion
If it's not clear:
```

> - what where you expecting?

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- what were you expecting?
```

> - what actually occured?

Reviewer 6: Simpler language:
```suggestion
- what actually happened?
```

The release number or commit hash of the version you're using.

## \[Optional\] Setup information

If you are reporting a bug about:

- difficulties getting Bevy to build or run on your machine
- unusual rendering bugs
- unusual input bugs
- hardware specific problems

These issues are often specific to hardware or OS configuration and can be challenging to reproduce.
As a result, please consider including information about:

- the Rust version you're using
  - Bevy has a policy of relying on the "latest stable release" of Rust
  - Nightly should generally work, but there are sometimes regressions: please let us know!
- the operating system, including its version
  - e.g. Windows 10, Ubuntu 18.04, iOS 14.

> - relevant hardware

Reviewer 4: Instead, I would recommend to paste the adapter info log that shows up when launching any example. It contains most of the relevant hardware info.

The on that looks like this:
```log
AdapterInfo { name: "NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070", vendor: 4318, device: 7938, device_type: DiscreteGpu, backend: Vulkan }
```

  - e.g. Nvidia GTX 1080 graphics card or XBox series X controller

You should also consider testing the examples of our upstream dependencies to help isolate the issue:

- [`wgpu`](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu) for rendering problems
- [`winit`](https://github.com/rust-windowing/winit) for input and window management
- [`gilrs`](https://docs.rs/gilrs/latest/gilrs/) for gamepad inputs

## What you did

The steps you took to uncover this bug.
Please provide a runnable snippet that demonstrates the problem if feasible.

> For example:

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure it's necessary to show an actual code snippet. I prefer keeping those type of templates as short as possible.

Author: I can definitely see the value in that.

However, this is targeted at absolute beginners: this may be their first open source interaction, and teaching them how to make "minimal reproducible examples" is worth the time IMO.

Reviewer 2: No, hard disagree. A bug report is a bug report. Its job is to get relevant info from users so we can track and fix an issue, not to teach users how to collaborate on open-source projects.
